WeMosReadVoltsDescription
The WeMos D1 Mini Pro has a single analog to digital converter which can be used to measure voltage using the analogRead(A0) statement. 
The pin A0 is connected to the ADC input of the ESP8266 microcontroller through a voltage divider of 220 K / 100 K ohms, so the 10 bit ADC ESP8266 with a range of 1V is scaled to a range of 3.2 Volts with a least significant bit nominal sensitivity of 3.2/1024=3.125 mV. 
In many practical situations, the range of 3.2V is not sufficient, but it can be extended to any arbitrary level with one external resistor. The schematic diagram of this project has a list of values to achieve various ranges which may be of general use. For example, a 180K resistor will give a range up to 5V, or a 1.2M resistor will give a range up to 15.2V. The LSB step size naturally increases as the range increases. 

The provision of a single analog input is a limitation. It could be extended to measure multiple inputs using a multiplexer made with discrete components, or an integrated circuit multiplexer. However the complexity of doing this is almost certain to exceed the complexity of using an external ADC device such as an ADS1115 which gives 4 analog inputs accessed via an I2C interface. The I2C interface can be shared with other external devices if needed.

The purpose of this project has been to explore the accuracy of the analog to digital converter, and develop a user library to deliver accurate results scaled to whatever external resistor the design may use. 

According to my testing, the current drain of the WeMos D1 mini pro varies significantly over the course of a cycle that lasts about 150 ms. Depending on the output impedance of the power supply, this variation results in a negative voltage spike on the supply rail. The worst case I have observed is when running from a USB charger there is a negative spike of over 1 Volt on the supply rail of about 5 Volts. The size of the spike can be reduced by filtering, and/or use of a battery with a lower output impedance than the USB supply. 

Depending on user requirements, it may not be convenient to provide sufficient filtering to meet desired accuracy. The library I have developed caters for two modes of operation, which can be used with or without filtering under the control of the software writer. 

 